Overview
A Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCPP) consists of gas turbines (GT), steam turbines (ST), and heat recovery steam generators. In a CCPP, electricity is generated by both gas and steam turbines, which are combined in one cycle. The energy generated by the gas turbine is utilized by the steam turbine, enhancing overall efficiency. While the vacuum affects the steam turbine, the other three ambient variables influence the performance of the gas turbine.

This repository contains Jupyter Notebook files demonstrating different regression models and analysis techniques to predict the energy output of a CCPP.

Regression Models Covered:
Multiple Linear Regression
Polynomial Regression
Support Vector Regression (SVR)
Decision Tree Regression
Random Forest Regression
About the Dataset
The dataset consists of 9568 data points collected from a Combined Cycle Power Plant over 6 years (2006-2011). During this period, the power plant operated at full load. The features include hourly average ambient variables such as:

Temperature (T): 1.81°C to 37.11°C
Ambient Pressure (AP): 992.89 to 1033.30 mbar
Relative Humidity (RH): 25.56% to 100.16%
Exhaust Vacuum (V): 25.36 to 81.56 cm Hg
Net Hourly Electrical Energy Output (EP): 420.26 to 495.76 MW
The averages are derived from various sensors positioned around the plant that record the ambient variables every second. The variables are presented without normalization.

Dependencies
Ensure that you have the following libraries installed before running the notebooks:

NumPy
Pandas
Matplotlib
Seaborn
Scikit-learn
You can install these libraries using pip:

bash
Copy code
pip install numpy pandas matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn
Results
We used the aforementioned regression models to predict the energy output of the CCPP. The models were evaluated using the R-squared value, which measures the proportion of variance in the dependent variable that is predictable from the independent variables.

Regression Models Comparison
Multiple Linear Regression: R-squared Value = 0.9325
Polynomial Regression: R-squared Value = 0.9458
Support Vector Regression: R-squared Value = 0.9481
Decision Tree Regression: R-squared Value = 0.9229
Random Forest Regression: R-squared Value = 0.9616


Conclusion
Among all the regression models, the Random Forest Regression model provides the best prediction of the energy output, with the highest R-squared value.